PHARMAPULSE - HOW TO RECORD THE DEMO VIDEO
==========================================

Everything below is plain text so it can be pasted into WhatsApp or a mail.
Read it once end to end before recording. Target length: 8 to 10 minutes.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 0 - BEFORE YOU HIT RECORD
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Open a NEW PowerShell window (a new one - see the Docker note at the end)
and run these, each in its own terminal.

  Terminal 1 - the API
      cd C:\Users\ASUS\Desktop\CS\Projects\pharmapulse
      uvicorn api.main:app --port 8000

  Terminal 2 - the interface
      cd C:\Users\ASUS\Desktop\CS\Projects\pharmapulse\web
      npm run dev

  Terminal 3 - reset the demo board, THEN restart Terminal 1
      cd C:\Users\ASUS\Desktop\CS\Projects\pharmapulse
      python scripts/reset_demo.py

The reset matters. If you have clicked "Accept order" while practising, the
shelf already holds the stock and the Order screen will recommend 0 units,
which makes the best slide in the demo look broken. Reset, then Ctrl+C and
restart the API so it re-reads the seeded position.

Then open Chrome at  http://localhost:5173

Housekeeping before recording:
  - Close every other tab. The tab bar is in the frame.
  - Hide bookmarks:  Ctrl+Shift+B
  - Zoom the browser to 100%:  Ctrl+0
  - Turn on Do Not Disturb so notifications do not pop into the video.
  - Put the window on a single screen at 1920x1080 if you can.

Do one silent dry run of the whole path first. It takes two minutes and it
is the difference between a smooth recording and eleven takes.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 1 - HOW TO ACTUALLY RECORD IT ON WINDOWS 11
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Option A - Xbox Game Bar. Built in, records your voice, easiest.

  1. Press  Win + G
  2. Click the microphone icon so it is ON (unmuted). Check the settings
     gear -> Capturing -> "Record what happened" is not needed; you want
     live recording.
  3. Press  Win + Alt + R  to start. A small timer appears in the corner.
  4. Press  Win + Alt + R  again to stop.
  5. The file lands in  C:\Users\ASUS\Videos\Captures  as an .mp4

  Note: Game Bar records ONE window - whichever was focused when you
  started. That is fine here, because everything happens in Chrome. But it
  means you cannot Alt-Tab to the terminal mid-recording and have it show.
  If you want the terminal in the video, record the terminal part as a
  separate clip.

Option B - Snipping Tool. Use this if you want a chosen region or the
whole desktop including terminals.

  1. Press  Win + Shift + S,  or open Snipping Tool from Start.
  2. Switch to the video (camera) icon.
  3. Drag a box around the area, or select the full screen.
  4. Click Start. Click Stop when done, then Save.
  5. Confirm the microphone toggle is on if you are narrating.

Option C - if the audio is fighting you, record silently and narrate over
it, or just add subtitles. A clean silent screen recording with a written
description sent alongside is better than a video with broken audio.

Recommendation: Option A, narrating live. It is one take and it sounds
natural.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 2 - THE RECORDING ORDER
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Seven segments. Time budget in brackets. Do not skip segment 7.

  1. Decisions      - the opening screen                        (60 s)
  2. Order          - the slider                                (110 s)
  3. Settings       - change a setting, watch the order move    (60 s)
  4. Forecast       - the fan chart and the model members       (75 s)
  5. Why            - attribution and the calibration diagram   (90 s)
  6. Replay         - the business case                         (75 s)
  7. Evidence       - the leaderboard and where we lose         (90 s)

Then a 30 second close.

The order is deliberate. It walks a real decision forward: what needs
deciding, what do I order, what if my costs change, do I believe the
forecast, why is it that number, was it worth anything, and can you prove
it. Do not present it in the order the code was written.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 3 - SEGMENT BY SEGMENT: WHAT TO DO, AND WHAT IT IS ACTUALLY SHOWING
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Each segment below has three parts. WHAT YOU DO on screen. WHAT TO SAY,
roughly - do not read it word for word. AND WHAT IT ACTUALLY IS, which is
the part your friends need in order to answer a question about it.


=== SEGMENT 1 - DECISIONS  (the landing screen, http://localhost:5173) ===

WHAT YOU DO
  Start here with nothing clicked. Let the screen sit for three seconds so
  the headline is readable. Move the cursor down the three exception rows.
  Do not click anything yet.

WHAT TO SAY
  "This is what a pharmacy buyer opens on a Monday morning. It does not
  open on a chart. It opens on a sentence: four products need a decision
  today, and there are about twelve hundred rupees at risk if nobody acts.
  Everything is ranked by money, not by probability."

  Then point at the third row: "This one is ninety-nine percent certain and
  it is ranked LAST, because it is only worth a hundred and sixty rupees.
  The row above it is only thirty-four percent likely and it is ranked
  higher, because it is worth two hundred and seventy-six. That inversion
  is the whole point. A buyer has ten minutes. Probability is not what
  should decide the order of their attention - exposure is."

AND WHAT IT ACTUALLY IS
  - The three numbers at the top right (ORDER NOW / CAPITAL STUCK /
    HEALTHY) are a live count over all eight products.
  - "STOCKOUT" and "OVERSTOCK" badges come from decision/risk.py. There are
    four rules. The stockout rule is evaluated at the CURRENT shelf
    position, before any order is placed - an earlier version evaluated it
    after ordering, so it never fired.
  - "85% likely" is a real probability read off the calibrated forecast
    distribution, not a hand-set threshold.
  - The rupee figure is the money exposure: for a shortage it is the lost
    gross margin on the units expected to be missing; for overstock it is
    the holding cost on the capital sitting idle.
  - "10.4 days of cover. The order has to survive 11 days - a 4-day lead
    time plus a 7-day gap until the next review." That 11 days is the
    PROTECTION INTERVAL, and it is one of the most important corrections in
    the project. See segment 3.


=== SEGMENT 2 - ORDER  (click "ORDER NOW - 240 UNITS" on the first row) ===

This is the most important segment in the video. Give it the most time.

WHAT YOU DO
  Click the ORDER NOW link on the Paracetamol row. It lands on the Order
  screen with Paracetamol already selected.

  Then, slowly, DRAG THE SLIDER. Left to about 60%, pause. Right to about
  98%, pause. Back to the recommended point. Drag slowly - the whole point
  is that the viewer watches four numbers move together.

WHAT TO SAY
  "This is the screen the entire system exists for. The question at the top
  is 'How often are you willing to run out?' - and that is the only input a
  buyer actually has an opinion about."

  While dragging: "Watch the service level, the stockout risk, the cost per
  cycle, and the order quantity in the top right. They all move together,
  and there is no loading spinner, because nothing is being fetched. The
  entire cost curve was sent once with the recommendation and the browser
  is interpolating it."

  "The curve underneath is the expected cost per order cycle at every
  service level. It is U-shaped. Order too little and you lose sales.
  Order too much and you pay to hold it. The marked point is the bottom of
  that curve - the quantity that minimises the total cost of being wrong."

  Then scroll to the bottom panel: "And this is what makes it usable. One
  pack fewer costs thirty-nine rupees and two paise. One pack more costs
  thirty-nine and seven. The recommendation is thirty-eight fifty-eight.
  So the buyer can see that being one pack off either way costs them about
  fifty paise - they can argue with the number instead of just trusting it."

AND WHAT IT ACTUALLY IS
  - The formula is the NEWSVENDOR CRITICAL FRACTILE:

        q*  =  Cu / (Cu + Co)

    Cu is the cost of ordering one unit too few (lost margin). Co is the
    cost of one unit too many (holding plus expiry risk). The formula gives
    a probability, and that probability is read off the forecast
    distribution as a quantile. It is a hundred-year-old result from
    operations research, and it is exact - it is not an approximation and
    it is not a heuristic.
  - Because it is closed form, the browser can recompute it. That is why
    dragging causes zero network calls. This is a genuine engineering
    point, not a gimmick.
  - The right-hand POSITION panel: "on hand 310". That is not a stored
    number. It is the seeded opening stock PLUS the sum of every ledger
    movement since - receipts, sales, wastage, adjustments. Look at "WHAT
    THE POSITION IS MADE OF" underneath it; that is the movement trail.
  - The order is rounded UP to a whole pack when a shortage costs more than
    an excess. Medicines come in packs; you cannot order 23.4 units.
  - LEAD-TIME DEMAND at the bottom right (p5 / p25 / p50 / p75 / p95) is
    the demand distribution over the whole protection interval, not over a
    single day. The centre scales linearly with the number of days and the
    spread scales with the square root, which is the standard result for
    summing independent periods.
  - WHERE EACH INPUT CAME FROM, right at the bottom, is the provenance
    panel. Every value on the screen is tagged as MEASURED or as YOUR
    SETTING. See segment 3.


=== SEGMENT 3 - SETTINGS  (top nav -> SETTINGS) ===

WHAT YOU DO
  Change the LEAD TIME from 4 days to 9 days. Save. Then go straight back
  to ORDER and show that the recommended quantity has jumped.

  Change it back to 4 afterwards.

WHAT TO SAY
  "The dataset we were given has dates and units sold. It does NOT have
  stock levels, prices, costs or lead times - those columns simply do not
  exist in the file. So the system does not invent them. It asks for them,
  here, and it labels them as your setting everywhere they appear."

  "Watch what happens when the supplier gets slower. Lead time four days to
  nine days. Go back to the order screen - the recommended quantity jumps,
  because the order now has to cover a much longer window."

AND WHAT IT ACTUALLY IS
  - This is the THREE LANES rule, and it is the single most defensible idea
    in the project. Every value belongs to exactly one lane:

      Lane 1, OBSERVED   - the sales file and calendar features from it.
                           May train a model. May explain. May back an
                           accuracy claim.
      Lane 2, USER SETTING - lead time, holding cost, margin, stock on
                           hand, pack size. May explain, as a named input.
                           NEVER trains a model. NEVER backs a claim.
      Lane 3, SYNTHETIC  - any generated demo data. None of the three.
                           The ingest function RAISES an exception on a
                           synthetic path. There is a test for it.

  - Why it matters: if you fabricate a price column and train on it, the
    model learns from a random number generator, and then the "why this
    number" screen presents that noise to a pharmacist as a commercial
    driver. That is worse than having no explanation at all. So price and
    promotion are excluded by name.
  - The lead time change is also the PROTECTION INTERVAL point. The order
    has to survive the lead time PLUS the gap until the next review, not
    the lead time alone. Sizing against the lead time alone was a real bug
    in an earlier build and it caused persistent stockouts - the replay
    simulation is what surfaced it. Fixing it took the shortfall in the
    simulation from 2,207 units down to 121.


=== SEGMENT 4 - FORECAST  (top nav -> FORECAST) ===

WHAT YOU DO
  Show the fan chart. Then switch the grain: Daily, Weekly, Monthly. Then
  scroll down to the table of model members and the series profile.

WHAT TO SAY
  "This is the forecast underneath the order. The blue line is what
  actually sold. The black line is our median forecast. The three grey
  bands are the fifty, eighty and ninety percent intervals - so the buyer
  sees a range, not a single false-precision number."

  "Three grains, and each answers a different question. Daily: will I run
  out before the next delivery. Weekly: what do I order on Tuesday.
  Monthly: how much cash do I need and when."

  Scrolling down: "And this is what is behind the black line. Five
  different models, each with a different assumption about how demand
  works. We do not pick one. We take the median. Segment seven explains why
  that is the interesting result."

AND WHAT IT ACTUALLY IS
  - The five ensemble members are AutoARIMA, LightGBM, MSTL, Prophet and
    SeasonalNaive. They are genuinely different families - a statistical
    time-series model, a gradient-boosted machine learning model, a
    seasonal decomposition, a Bayesian additive model, and the naive
    baseline.
  - SERIES PROFILE on the right shows ADI and CV-squared. Those two numbers
    classify a product's demand pattern (the Syntetos-Boylan scheme):
    smooth, erratic, intermittent or lumpy. The class decides which models
    the product is routed to. It is recomputed every night from the data,
    per grain - it is not configured by hand. One of the eight products,
    the sedatives, sells nothing on 67.9% of days, so it routes to Croston
    and TSB, which are built for intermittent demand.
  - The intervals are CONFORMALLY CALIBRATED. That is segment 5.
  - Weekly grain, horizon 8 means we forecast eight weeks ahead.


=== SEGMENT 5 - WHY  (top nav -> WHY) ===

WHAT YOU DO
  Land on the Why screen. Pick Antihistamines from the product tabs if it
  is not already selected. Show the left panel first, then the right.

WHAT TO SAY
  Left panel: "A feature-importance chart explains the MODEL. A buyer needs
  an explanation of the QUANTITY. So the answer is in units. Antihistamines
  are down about twenty units next month. Seasonality accounts for minus
  twenty-three point seven - we are coming off the pollen season. The
  underlying trend is plus four. And the parts add up to the whole; there
  is a test that asserts it, because an explanation that does not add up to
  the number it explains is worse than no explanation."

  Right panel: "And this is the slide most teams never build. We measured
  whether our own confidence intervals are honest. We took every interval
  we ever stated and checked how often the real outcome actually landed
  inside it. A stated eighty percent interval covered ninety-two point two
  percent of outcomes."

  "That is too WIDE, not too narrow. Which sounds like the safe direction
  and is not - an over-wide interval pushes the order quantity up, and the
  buyer pays holding cost for confidence the model has not earned.
  Conformal correction pulls it to eighty-two percent."

AND WHAT IT ACTUALLY IS
  - The attribution is read from Prophet's fitted components - the actual
    trend, seasonality and holiday terms the model fitted - and then forced
    to reconcile so the parts sum to the total.
  - The diagonal dashed line on the diagram is perfect calibration. The red
    line is the raw model. The black line is after correction. Closer to
    the diagonal is better.
  - CONFORMAL PREDICTION is distribution-free. It does not assume the
    errors are normally distributed or any other shape. It takes the actual
    historical residuals, finds the empirical quantile, and rescales the
    interval by the ratio. The scale factor is clamped between 0.25 and 5
    so one bad series cannot destroy the intervals.
  - n = 256 is stated on the screen on purpose. That is enough points to
    establish a consistent DIRECTION of miscalibration. It is not enough to
    certify a per-series level. Saying so is deliberate.
  - Worth mentioning out loud: our own design document predicted the
    opposite - that intervals would be over-confident at 75%. The
    measurement contradicted the document. We corrected the document rather
    than the measurement.


=== SEGMENT 6 - REPLAY  (top nav -> REPLAY) ===

WHAT YOU DO
  Click START REPLAY and let it tick for about fifteen seconds so the date
  visibly advances and the shelf moves. Then STOP it and scroll down to
  "What it was worth". Switch between the three windows (Jan-Mar 2019,
  Apr-Jun 2019, Oct-Dec 2018) so it is obviously not one lucky quarter.

WHAT TO SAY
  "This replays the real 2019 history one day per tick. Real sales, real
  dates. Nothing is simulated except the shelf and the ordering policy."

  "And this is the business case. Our policy against a standard min/max
  policy, over the identical real days, with identical costs, the identical
  lead time, the identical review cadence and the identical protection
  interval. The only difference is that min/max sizes against the AVERAGE
  demand, and we size against the quantile the cost ratio implies."

  "Min/max costs four thousand six hundred and nineteen rupees over that
  quarter. Ours costs one thousand four hundred and nine. Sixty-nine and a
  half percent lower."

  Then, and this line matters: "And look at WHERE the saving comes from.
  Our holding cost is HIGHER - five hundred and one against three hundred
  and eighty-nine. We deliberately hold more stock and pay more to hold it.
  The entire saving is fewer lost sales - lost margin drops from four
  thousand two hundred and thirty to nine hundred and eight. There is a
  test that asserts that relationship, so we cannot accidentally start
  claiming a saving that comes from the wrong place."

  Switch the windows: "Different quarter, same direction. Sixty-four
  percent. Seventy-five percent."

AND WHAT IT ACTUALLY IS
  - min/max is the standard textbook inventory policy and it is what a real
    pharmacy would actually be doing. It is a fair baseline, and it was
    given every advantage - the same protection interval as us. An earlier
    version of this comparison was accidentally rigged (we had fixed our
    interval but left the baseline on the old one) and produced an 88%
    saving. That was corrected down to a defensible ~70%.
  - Replay is not a screen feature. It is decision/replay.py, a policy
    simulator in the decision layer, and the screen is a thin client over
    it. That is what lets it also run headlessly as the closest thing the
    project has to an end-to-end integration test.
  - Each replay session holds a lock. Concurrent ticks used to corrupt a
    run - the shortfall went from 121 units to 547 - so the session
    serialises them and the client pauses its poller while a tick is in
    flight.


=== SEGMENT 7 - EVIDENCE  (top nav -> EVIDENCE) ===

Do not skip this. This is the segment that makes a faculty member believe
the rest of the video.

WHAT YOU DO
  Show the four figures at the top. Then the highlighted box. Then the
  leaderboard. Then scroll to the per-series table and the provenance
  footer.

WHAT TO SAY
  "Every number on this screen was written by a benchmark script running
  from a clean clone. None of it is typed by a human. The script writes a
  JSON file and the interface only reads it."

  "Our ensemble scores 0.907 MASE. The benchmark to beat is SeasonalNaive
  at 1.117 - that is 'repeat what happened this week last year', and on
  retail pharmacy data it is genuinely hard to beat. We are 18.8 percent
  better than it."

  Then the highlighted box: "And this is the result worth leading with. We
  implemented the obvious approach - pick each product's best model - and
  we measured it LOSING. Selection scores 0.968. Combining them by taking
  the median scores 0.907. Perfect hindsight, which is a bound and not a
  model, is 0.843."

  "The reason is that with about three hundred weekly observations, 'best
  on the last fold' is mostly noise. So selection chases noise and locks in
  whichever model got lucky. Independent models make independent mistakes,
  and the median cancels them. We only know that because we built both and
  measured."

  Per-series table: "And here is where it does not work. The ensemble beats
  seasonal-naive on all eight products, so that column is not the
  interesting one. The honest column is the absolute one - a MASE above one
  point zero means worse than simply repeating last week, and two of our
  eight are. Antihistamines at 1.646 is our worst. The May pollen peak is
  sharp and its timing moves year to year, and we have six observations of
  it. We are not going to pretend otherwise."

  Provenance footer: "Snapshot hash of the exact data file. Model version.
  Generation timestamp. Audit chain valid. Every response the API sends
  carries this."

AND WHAT IT ACTUALLY IS
  - MASE = Mean Absolute Scaled Error. Below 1 is better than the naive
    baseline; above 1 is worse. We use MASE and not MAPE because MAPE is
    undefined when the actual value is zero, and one of our products sells
    nothing on 67.9% of days.
  - The protocol, stated on the screen: weekly grain, horizon 8,
    rolling-origin cross-validation with 4 non-overlapping folds, 8 series,
    seed 42. Rolling-origin means the model only ever sees data from before
    the point it is forecasting.
  - The selection experiment is scored honestly: the choice for fold k uses
    only folds 1 through k-1, so it never sees the fold it is graded on.
    Without that, selection would look artificially good.
  - "Cache hit rate 0%, 1 request, no model runs per request" - that is the
    batch/serve split. Models are fitted in an offline batch that writes a
    versioned forecast store. Serving a screen is a read. Nothing is fitted
    inside a web request.
  - The snapshot hash is a SHA-256 of the input CSV. If the data changes,
    the hash changes, and every claim on the screen is tied to it.


=== CLOSE  (30 seconds, back on the Decisions screen) ===

WHAT TO SAY
  "So: it forecasts, at 0.907 MASE, 18.8 percent better than the benchmark.
  It decides - the forecast becomes an actual purchase order in packs. It
  is honest about its own uncertainty, and it shows the two products where
  it loses inside the product itself, not just in a report. And it is real
  - a hundred and thirty-eight tests, a benchmark that reruns from a clean
  clone in CI, and it runs in Docker."

  "The one limitation we state before anyone asks: we forecast SALES, not
  DEMAND. A stockout records zero sales, which is indistinguishable from
  zero demand, so our observations are right-censored - and the censoring
  is worst on exactly the products that matter most. We flag suspicious
  ceilings but we cannot verify the correction, because this dataset has no
  on-hand-stock column. It is named in the model card and it is the first
  thing a real deployment would fix, by joining the pharmacy's own
  inventory ledger."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 4 - IF SOMETHING GOES WRONG MID-RECORDING
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The screen says "degraded" or a badge looks wrong
  The forecast store is missing and the API is serving fixtures. Stop, run
      python -m pipelines.run_nightly --stage all
  It takes about four minutes and prints progress per model. It is working,
  not hung - AutoARIMA at daily grain is the slow part. Then restart the
  API.

The Order screen recommends 0 units
  You already accepted orders. Run  python scripts/reset_demo.py  and then
  restart the API so it re-reads the seeded position.

Errno 10048, only one usage of each socket address
  Port 8000 is already taken by an earlier server.
      netstat -ano | Select-String ":8000" | Select-String LISTENING
      taskkill /F /PID <the-pid>
  Check the PID is actually your python process before killing it.

The replay numbers look wrong after clicking around
  Stop the replay, switch windows, and start again. Do not run two replays
  at once.

Do not edit numbers to make them look better. Every figure in the interface
is traceable to artifacts/benchmarks.json or to the replay simulator, and a
figure that does not match is worse than a figure that is not impressive.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 5 - WHAT TO SEND WITH THE VIDEO
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

  - The video.
  - deck/PharmaPulse.pptx - 17 slides, with speaker notes on every slide.
  - The repo link: github.com/yashdoke7/pharmapulse
    NOTE: the repository is currently PRIVATE. If faculty are expected to
    open it, either make it public or add them as collaborators first.

If they want to read rather than watch:
  docs/PHARMAPULSE_SYSTEM.md    the whole project, one file
  docs/ARCHITECTURE_DELTA.md    what changed against the submitted design
  docs/DEMONSTRATION.md         the longer presenting guide
  docs/MODEL_CARD.md            intended use, evaluation, seven limitations


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 6 - THE FIVE QUESTIONS THEY WILL ASK, AND THE ANSWERS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q. Where did the cost and stock data come from? You are making it up.
A. Correct, and that is why it is quarantined. Those are lane-2 values -
   user settings. They are entered in Settings, labelled as settings
   everywhere they appear, they never train a model and they never back an
   accuracy claim. Every accuracy number in this project comes from the
   sales file alone. A real deployment reads them from the pharmacy's ERP.

Q. Is 18.8 percent better than a naive baseline actually impressive?
A. SeasonalNaive is not a weak baseline on retail pharmacy data - it is the
   standard one and it is hard to beat, because pharmacy demand really is
   strongly seasonal. The more interesting result is not the 18.8 percent;
   it is that per-series model selection LOST to combination, which is a
   negative result about our own first instinct.

Q. Why not deep learning / a transformer?
A. Eight series and about three hundred weekly observations each. That is
   nowhere near the data volume where a deep model earns its variance. We
   measured a global gradient-boosted model (LightGBM) and it is in the
   ensemble - it scores 0.961, better than every classical model except
   Prophet, and the median of five still beats it.

Q. How do I know these numbers are real and not typed in?
A. Run  python scripts/day1_benchmark.py  from a clean clone. It takes
   about 45 seconds and it writes artifacts/benchmarks.json. The interface
   only reads that file. The same script runs in CI on every push.

Q. What would you do next?
A. Three things, in order. One: join a real inventory ledger so we can
   correct the censoring and forecast demand instead of sales. Two:
   temporal reconciliation, so the daily, weekly and monthly forecasts are
   guaranteed to sum - right now they are produced independently. Three: a
   promotion gate, so a new model has to beat SeasonalNaive on every series
   before it is allowed to publish.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOCKER NOTE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

If PowerShell says  "The term 'docker' is not recognized"  that does NOT
mean Docker is missing. Docker Desktop adds its CLI to the machine PATH at
install time, and any terminal opened before that never picks it up. Open a
brand new PowerShell window.

Docker Desktop must also be RUNNING - start it from the Start menu and wait
for the whale icon to stop animating.

Then:  docker compose up --build      (api on :8000, web on :5173)

Stop any local  npm run dev  or  uvicorn  first, or the containers cannot
bind those ports.
